Part 1: Discussion Questions

Recursion

In your own words, what is Recursion?
    1. Recursion is when a function calls itself.
Why is it necessary to have a Base Case?
    2. It is necessary to have a base case because it prevents the function from 
        calling itself forever. A base case is where the function will break and
        not call itself again. 


Graphs

What is a Graph?
    1. Graphs are similar to trees but they represent hierachical relationships 
How is a Graph different from a Tree?
    2. They may contain loops, and can be directed or not directed
Give an example of somthing that would be good to model with a Graph.
    3. Courses required to complete a major.

Performance of Different Data Structures

Fill in the missing spots in the chart with the correct runtimes. Do this by reasoning through how the data structures work, NOT by looking up the solution. Add-R means add to the right/end/top and Add-L means add to the left/beginning. There are Xs in the spots where that operation doesn’t make sense for that data structure (for instance, you can’t index a Stack, or pop from the end of a Queue). We’ve provided the first few answers for you.

Fill in the runtimes for the following actions for the table below:

Data Structure      Index   Search  Add-R   Add-L   Pop-L   Pop-R
Python List (Array) O(1)    O(n)    O(1)    O(n)     O(n)    O(1)
Linked List         O(n)    O(n)    O(1)    O(1)     O(1)     O(n) 
Doubly-Linked List  O(n)    O(n)    O(1)    O(1)     O(1)     O(1)           
Queue (as Array)    X       X       O(1)     X       O(n)     X
Queue (as LL or DLL) X     X        O(1)     X       O(1)     X
Stack (as Array, LL, or DLL) 
                    X      X        O(1)     X          X       O(1)      
Deque (as DLL)      X      X        O(1)     O(1)     O(1)      O(1)                  


Fill in Runtime and Memory:

The answers for Dictionary have been provided; you should fill in the rest:

Data Structure          Get     Add     Delete  Iterate     Memory
Dictionary (Hash Map)   O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)        medium
Set (Hash Map)          O(1)    O(1)    O(1)    O(n)        medium          
Binary Search Tree      O(log n) O(n)    O(n)   O(1)        low            
Tree                    O(n)     O(1)    O(1)   O(1)        low


Describe in words how the Bubble Sort algorithm works.
    1. Bubble sort goes through a list and checks 2 adjacent items, and if not in order, swaps them. Goes through the 
        list until no more swaps are needed.
Describe in words how the Merge Sort algorithm works.
    2. splits the list into sublists until it only has one element, then it merges sublists until it has 1 list remaining and this will be sorted
Describe in words how the Quick Sort algorithm works.
    3. Uses a pivot point in a list, reorders the list so all items less than the pivot are on one side, and the ones greater are on the other side. It does this recursively. 

Git Branching

Give an instance when you would use git branching.
    1. When adding a new feature to a project, but do not want to add to the code that is in production. 
What is a pull request?
    1. Pull requests tell others of changes you've made to the branch and allows them to view them and modify them.
